"You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"We suffer more often in imagination than in reality." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"It's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"The best revenge is not to be like your enemy." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Waste no more time arguing what a good man should be. Be one." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants." - Epictetus, Discourses
"If it is not right, do not do it. If it is not true, do not say it." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"No man is free who is not master of himself." - Epictetus, Fragments
"Begin each day by telling yourself: Today I shall be meeting with interference, ingratitude, insolence." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body." - Seneca, On Providence
"First say to yourself what you would be; and then do what you have to do." - Epictetus, Discourses
"The obstacle is the way." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Don't explain your philosophy. Embody it." - Epictetus, Discourses
"The soul becomes dyed with the color of its thoughts." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"True happiness is to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Life is very short and anxious for those who forget the past, neglect the present, and fear the future." - Seneca, On the Shortness of Life
"Choose not to be harmed, and you won't feel harmed." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"External things are not the problem. It's your assessment of them." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"You could leave life right now. Let that determine what you do and say and think." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Forget everything else. Keep hold of this alone: each of us lives only now, this brief instant." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it." - Seneca, On the Shortness of Life
"While we are postponing, life speeds by." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"Life is long, if only you knew how to use it." - Seneca, On the Shortness of Life
"Sometimes even to live is an act of courage." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"The greatest obstacle to living is expectation, which depends on tomorrow and wastes today." - Seneca, On the Shortness of Life
"Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"If you shape your life according to nature, you will never be poor; if according to people's opinions, you will never be rich." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"The wise man regards wealth as a slave, the fool as a master." - Seneca, On the Happy Life
"You ask what is the proper limit to a person's wealth? First, having what is essential, and second, having what is enough." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Anger is a brief madness." - Seneca, On Anger
"The greatest cure for anger is delay." - Seneca, On Anger
"How much better it is to heal an injury than to avenge it!" - Seneca, On Anger
"To avoid being angry with individuals, you must pardon the whole mass." - Seneca, On Anger
"If a man knows not to which port he sails, no wind is favorable." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"He who has learned to die has unlearned slavery." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"We do not suddenly fall on death, but advance towards it by slight degrees; we die every day." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"You will die, not because you are ill, but because you are alive." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"At whatever point you leave life, if you leave it in the right way, it is a whole." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"We have two ears and one mouth so that we can listen twice as much as we speak." - Epictetus, Discourses
"Men are disturbed not by things, but by the view which they take of them." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"It is difficulties that show what men are." - Epictetus, Discourses
"Make the best use of what is in your power, and take the rest as it happens." - Epictetus, Discourses
"A ship should not ride on a single anchor, nor life on a single hope." - Epictetus, Fragments
"No great thing is created suddenly." - Epictetus, Discourses
"Know, first, who you are, and then adorn yourself accordingly." - Epictetus, Fragments
"It is the nature of the wise to resist pleasures, but the foolish to be a slave to them." - Epictetus, Fragments
"If you want something good, get it yourself." - Epictetus, Discourses
"Freedom isn't secured by filling up on your heart's desire but by removing your desire." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"Don't seek for everything to happen as you wish it would, but rather wish that everything happens as it actually will." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"Curb your desire—don't set your heart on so many things and you will get what you need." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"The key is to keep company only with people who uplift you, whose presence calls forth your best." - Epictetus, Discourses
"To stand up straight – not straightened." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"To stop talking about what the good man is like, and just be one." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Choose not to be harmed — and you won't feel harmed. Don't feel harmed — and you haven't been." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"It's time you realized that you have something in you more powerful than the things that affect you." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"If anyone can refute me, I'll gladly change. It's the truth I'm after, and the truth never harmed anyone." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Today I escaped from anxiety. Or no, I discarded it, because it was within me, in my own perceptions." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Look inward. Don't let the true nature or value of anything elude you." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Not to display anger or other emotions. To be free of passion and yet full of love." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Learn to ask of all action, 'Why are they doing that?' Starting with your own." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Practice really hearing what people say. Do your best to get inside their minds." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"People exist for one another. You can instruct or endure them." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Self-reliance, always. And cheerfulness." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Nothing ought to be unexpected by us. Our minds should be sent forward to meet all problems." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"If you really want to escape the things that harass you, what you're needing is not to be in a different place but to be a different person." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"How can you wonder your travels do you no good, when you carry yourself around with you?" - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Away with the world's opinion of you – it's always unsettled and divided." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Such things should be despised, not to stop having them, but to avoid worry when you do have them." - Seneca, On the Happy Life
"Associate with people who are likely to improve you. Welcome those whom you are capable of improving." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Men learn as they teach." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"A good character is the only guarantee of everlasting, carefree happiness." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"True happiness resides in virtue." - Seneca, On the Happy Life
"The happy life is one that is in harmony with its own nature." - Seneca, On The Happy Life
"When friendship is settled, you must trust; before friendship is formed, you must pass judgment." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"You must live for your neighbour, if you would live for yourself." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"No good thing is pleasant to possess, without friends to share it." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"The wise man is self-sufficient, that he can do without friends, not that he desires to do without them." - Seneca, Letters to Lucilius
"That sort of person is bound to do that. You might as well resent a fig tree for secreting juice." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Everything is interwoven, and the web is holy; none of its parts are unconnected." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"You have to assemble your life yourself – action by action." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Not to live as if you had endless years ahead of you. Death overshadows you." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Don't look down on death, but welcome it. It too is one of the things required by nature." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"What dying is – and that if you look at it in the abstract, you realize that it's nothing but a process of nature." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Nowhere you can go is more peaceful than your own soul." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"People try to get away from it all. You always wish that you could too. Which is idiotic: you can get away from it anytime you like. By going within." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Your ability to control your thoughts – treat it with respect." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"You can discard most of the junk that clutters your mind – things that exist only there." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"There is a limit to the time assigned you, and if you don't use it to free yourself it will be gone." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"The mind adapts and converts to its own purposes the obstacles to our acting." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now take what's left and live it properly." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"When you start to lose your temper, remember: There's nothing manly about rage. It's courtesy and kindness that define a human being." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"If you don't have a consistent goal in life, you can't live it in a consistent way." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"At dawn, when you have trouble getting out of bed, tell yourself: 'I have to go to work – as a human being.'" - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Just that you do the right thing. The rest doesn't matter." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"It is not that we have a brief length of time to live, but that we squander a great deal of that time." - Seneca, On the Shortness of Life
"You are unfortunate in my judgement, for you have never been unfortunate. You have passed through life with no antagonist." - Seneca, On Providence
"How nice it is to have out-worn one's desires and left them behind." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Greed is satisfied by nothing, but nature finds satisfaction even in scant measures." - Seneca, Consolation to Helvia
"What is the need to weep at parts of life? All life is worthy of our tears." - Seneca, Consolation to Marcia
"Set aside a certain number of days, during which you shall be content with the scantiest fare." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"Before anything it is imperative that a man reaches an estimate of himself." - Seneca, On the Tranquillity of the Mind
"We must next evaluate what we propose to undertake, and compare our strength with the tasks we intend." - Seneca, On the Tranquillity of the Mind
"This is why we say that nothing happens to the wise man contrary to his expectations." - Seneca, On the Tranquillity of the Mind
"Let us so order our minds as if we had come to the very end. Let us postpone nothing." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"We do not fear death; we fear the thought of death." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"What is death? It is either the end, or a process of change. I have no fear of ceasing to exist." - Seneca, Moral Letters
"No pestilence has been more costly for the human race than anger." - Seneca, On Anger
"The best course is to reject straightaway the initial prickings of anger." - Seneca, On Anger
"If we want to be fair judges, let us convince ourselves that none of us is without fault." - Seneca, On Anger
"It is the mark of a great spirit to regard wrongs as beneath contempt." - Seneca, On Anger
"Remaining dry and sober takes a good deal more strength of will when everyone about one is puking drunk." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"The things you think about determine the quality of your mind." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"So other people hurt me? That's their problem. What is done to me is ordained by nature, what I do by my own." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Concentrate every minute like a Roman on doing what's in front of you with precise and genuine seriousness." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Not to assume it's impossible because you find it hard. But to recognize that if it's humanly possible, you can do it too." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Dig deep; the water – goodness – is down there. And as long as you keep digging, it will keep bubbling up." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"It's quite possible to be a good man without anyone realizing it." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"He who fears death will never do anything worthy of a man who is alive." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Before virtue only comes to a character which has been thoroughly schooled and trained." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"But virtue only comes to a character which has been thoroughly schooled and trained and brought to perfection by unremitting practice." - Seneca, Letters from a Stoic
"Remember that you're an actor in a play, which will be as the author chooses." - Epictetus, Enchiridion
"When people injure you, ask yourself what good or harm they thought would come of it." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"What injures the hive injures the bee." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"All that you see will soon have vanished, and those who see it vanish will vanish themselves." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Time is a river, a violent current of events, glimpsed once and already carried past us." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Death and life, success and failure, pain and pleasure, wealth and poverty happen to good and bad alike." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Keep in mind how fast things pass by and are gone – those that are now, and those to come." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Look at the past – empire after empire – and from that, extrapolate the future: the same thing." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Frightened of change? But what can exist without it? What's closer to nature's heart?" - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"And if you can't stop prizing a lot of other things? Then you'll never be free." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"The mind is the ruler of the soul. It should remain unstirred by agitations of the flesh." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Your soul takes on the color of your thoughts." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Go straight to the seat of intelligence – your own, the world's, your neighbor's." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Stop allowing your mind to be a slave, to be jerked about by selfish impulses." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"Things have no hold on the soul. They have no access to it, cannot move or direct it." - Marcus Aurelius, Meditations
"No loss should be more regrettable to us than losing our time, for it's irretrievable." - Zeno of Citium, Fragments
"Man conquers the world by conquering himself." - Zeno of Citium, Fragments
"Steel your sensibilities, so that life shall hurt you as little as possible." - Zeno of Citium, Fragments
