===MUSONIUS RUFUS QUOTES===

"You will earn the respect of all if you begin by earning the respect of yourself. Don't expect to encourage good deeds in people conscious of your own misdeeds." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Sayings

"If one accomplishes some good though with toil, the toil passes, but the good remains; if one does something dishonourable with pleasure, the pleasure passes, but the dishonour remains." - Musonius Rufus, That One Should Disdain Hardships

"We will train both soul and body when we accustom ourselves to cold, heat, thirst, hunger, scarcity of food, hardness of bed, abstaining from pleasures, and enduring pains." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Sayings

"From good people you'll learn good, but if you mingle with the bad you'll destroy such soul as you had." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"If we were to measure what is good by how much pleasure it brings, nothing would be better than self-control; if we were to measure what is to be avoided by its pain, nothing would be more painful than lack of self-control." - Musonius Rufus, On How to Live

"Wealth is able to buy the pleasures of eating, drinking and other sensual pursuits—yet can never afford a cheerful spirit or freedom from sorrow." - Musonius Rufus, On How to Live

"In order to protect ourselves we must live like doctors and be continually treating ourselves with reason." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"Philosophy needs no special time or place or circumstances in which to practice it." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"It is not the consuming of food but the desire for food that hinders the philosopher." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"Exile is the time to live like a wise man." - Musonius Rufus, On Exile

"We should not abandon our training, but stand up to disaster and learn to confront it." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"It is possible to be a good man without anyone realizing it. Remember that the gods, not other people, will reward us." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"We will be invincible if we enter the fight armed with proper training." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"Others have been in poor health from overindulgence and high living, before exile has provided strength, forcing them to live a more vigorous life." - Musonius Rufus, On How to Live

"The best livelihood is earning a living from the soil, whether you own your land or not. The earth repays those who cultivate her, both justly and well, multiplying what she received—endowing in abundance all the necessities of life to anyone willing to work." - Musonius Rufus, On How to Live

"Philosophy teaches that we should be above pleasure and greed. It teaches that we should love frugality and avoid extravagance. It accustoms us to be modest and to control our tongue. It brings about discipline, order, decorum, and on the whole fitting behavior in action and in habit." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Sayings

"All knowledge should be applicable in one's daily life and serviceable to action." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"How much better it is to exert oneself to discipline one's desires; in place of enduring hardships for the sake of money, to train oneself to want little; instead of giving oneself trouble about getting notoriety, to enquire how not to envy anyone; and instead of slaving to win false friends, to undergo suffering in order to possess true friends." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"Who is unwilling to exert himself almost always convicts himself as unworthy of good, since all good is gained by toil." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"For the acquisition of virtue, practice is more effective than theory. Theory teaches what is right conduct, while practice represents the habit of those accustomed to act in accordance with such theory." - Musonius Rufus, Discourse on Practice vs Theory

"There is no need of giving many proofs for one problem. In philosophy, rather than showing lots of complicated examples, seek a few clear ones." - Musonius Rufus, Discourse One

"Women too should study philosophy, since obviously each aspect of philosophy is a part of life, and philosophy is nothing other than knowledge about life." - Musonius Rufus, That Women Too Should Study Philosophy

"A woman must be chaste and self-controlled; she must be pure in respect of unlawful love, exercise restraint in other pleasures, not be a slave to desire, not be contentious, not lavish in expense, nor extravagant in dress." - Musonius Rufus, That Women Too Should Study Philosophy

"The person who has learned philosophy and practices it would seem to have become a well-ordered person—able to control temper, not be overcome by grief, and be superior to uncontrolled emotion of every kind." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"What good are gilded rooms or precious stones fitted on the floor, inlaid in the walls, carried from great distances at the greatest expense? These things are pointless and unnecessary—without them isn't it possible to live healthy? Aren't they the source of constant trouble? Don't they cost vast sums of money that may have benefited many?" - Musonius Rufus, On How to Live

"The king must possess self-control, frugality, modesty, courage, wisdom, magnanimity, the ability to prevail in speech over others, the ability to endure pain, and must be free of error. Philosophy is the only art that provides all such virtues." - Musonius Rufus, Discourse to a Syrian King

"Man is born with an inclination toward virtue." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

"Someone who is not a trained doctor, musician, or helmsman cannot be expected to practice those skills without error. The same applies to virtuous living—it must be learned and trained." - Musonius Rufus, Discourse Two

"Since toil and hardship are a necessity for all, it is preposterous that those pursuing the better are not much more eager in their efforts than those for whom there is small hope of reward for all their pains." - Musonius Rufus, Lectures and Fragments

===CLEANTHES QUOTES===

"Lead me on, O Zeus, and thou Destiny, to that goal long ago to me assigned. I'll follow readily but if my will prove weak; wretched as I am, I must follow still. Fate guides the willing, but drags the unwilling." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"Most glorious of the immortals, many-named, almighty forever, Zeus, prime mover of nature, steering all things by your law." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"For we all descend from you, bearing our share of your likeness. We alone, of all mortal creatures that live and move on earth." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"Truly, this whole universe, spinning around the earth, obeys you wherever you lead, and willingly submits to your rule." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"By the thunderbolt you direct the universal reason, which pervades all things, intermixing with the great and small lights of the heavens." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"But bountiful Zeus, shrouded in dark clouds and ruling the thunder, protect human beings from their ruinous ignorance; scatter it from our souls, grant that we might obtain true judgment on which you rely to steer all things with justice." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"So that having won honor, we may honor you in return, hymning your works forever, as is meet for mortals; for neither mortals nor gods have any greater privilege than to make everlasting song of the universal law in justice." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"For it is proper for all mortals to speak to you, since we bear only the image of your voice, alone of all mortal things that live and move upon the earth." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"Not a single thing that is done on earth happens without you, God, nor in the divine ethereal heaven nor in the sea, except what bad men do in their folly." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"But you know how to make the crooked straight, to order the disorderly, and things not dear to you are dear. Thus you have harmonized into one all things that are good and bad, so that there arises one reason, everlasting, of all things." - Cleanthes, Hymn to Zeus

"The goal of life is to live consistently with nature." - Cleanthes, Fragments

"The passions—love, fear, grief—are weaknesses. They lack the strain or tension which gives strength to the soul." - Cleanthes, Fragments

"Pleasure is not only not a good, but is contrary to nature and worthless." - Cleanthes, Fragments

"The universe is under the governance of reason, and everyone has it as their privilege to know or become acquainted with the world-course, to recognize it as rational and cheerfully to conform to it. This is true freedom." - Cleanthes, Fragments

"Humbly acquiesce in the universal order, and therefore in everything that befalls you. This is wisdom." - Cleanthes, Fragments

"The Sun sustains all living things. It resembles the divine fire which animates all living beings; hence it too must be part of the vivifying fire or aether of the universe." - Cleanthes, On the Nature of the Gods

===CHRYSIPPUS QUOTES===

"He who is running a race ought to endeavor and strive to the utmost of his ability to come off victor; but it is utterly wrong for him to trip up his competitor, or to push him aside. So in life, it is not unfair for one to seek for himself what may accrue to his benefit; but it is not right to take it from another." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"Success is rendered meaningless when we betray our principles and when we let the desire for victory poison our souls. Virtue above all." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"If Chrysippus had not existed, neither would the Stoa." - Ancient Stoic saying about Chrysippus

"The passions or emotions are the disturbing element in right judgment. They are contrary to nature." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"An emotion is an irrational and unnatural movement of the soul, or an impulse which is excessive." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"To quell a passion, demonstrate that the emotion has nothing to do with what is bad, and show through reason why the judgment is false." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"Living virtuously means living in agreement with our experience of the actual course of nature." - Chrysippus, On the Goal of Life

"The universe operates according to a rational order, or logos, and human beings, as rational creatures, can align themselves with this cosmic order through reason." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"There should be a brotherhood between all humans, arising from the concept of sympatheia—the interconnection of all things in the cosmos." - Chrysippus, On Ethics

"Health, riches, and honor are morally indifferent. The wise person uses such things without requiring them." - Chrysippus, On Things Indifferent

"Practice and habit are necessary to render virtue perfect in the individual. Character must be built up through moral progress." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"The person who is free from the unruly emotions instead experiences good emotions—clear-headed feelings that arise from correct judgments." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"A conditional statement is true if denial of the consequent is logically incompatible with the antecedent." - Chrysippus, Logical Questions

"The purpose of logic is not merely to create a formal system, but to better understand the workings of the universe and the role of humanity within it." - Chrysippus, On Logic

"When a dog is tied to a cart, if it wants to follow it is pulled and follows, making its spontaneous act coincide with necessity; but if it does not want to follow it will be compelled in any case. So it is with men too: even if they do not want to, they will be compelled to follow what is destined." - Chrysippus (or Cleanthes), On Fate and Free Will

"Fate guides the willing, but drags the unwilling." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"We are parts of one great body. Nature produced us related to one another, since she created us from the same source and to the same end." - Chrysippus, On the Nature of Man

"The soul takes on the nature of its thoughts. As are our thoughts, so are our lives." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"There is no greater task for human beings than to free themselves from the disturbance of the passions." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"Reason is the craftsman of impulse. When we assent to appearances and form judgments, impulse follows." - Chrysippus, On the Soul

"Philosophy is like medicine—its purpose is to heal the soul." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"The wise person differs from others not in experiencing fewer external evils, but in experiencing them differently—with equanimity and understanding." - Chrysippus, On the Wise Person

"Virtue alone is sufficient for happiness. External things add nothing to the happy life of the wise person." - Chrysippus, On the Goal of Life

"We must understand that emotions arise from our judgments. Change the judgment, and the emotion changes." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"To understand how to live, we must understand the nature of the cosmos. Ethics depends upon physics." - Chrysippus, Fragments

"The cosmos is a living, rational being. We are intimately connected with its rational structure." - Chrysippus, On the Nature of the Gods

"Every event follows from antecedent causes in an unbroken chain. Nothing happens without a cause." - Chrysippus, On Fate

"Our freedom lies not in breaking the chain of causation, but in willingly assenting to it with understanding." - Chrysippus, On Freedom and Fate

"The emotions we feel are not caused by external events, but by the judgments we make about those events." - Chrysippus, On Passions

"To be free of disturbance, we must train ourselves to see things as they truly are, not as they appear through the distorting lens of passion." - Chrysippus, Therapeutics

"Philosophy cultivates the mind as farming cultivates the soil. Both require persistent effort to yield good fruit." - Chrysippus, Fragments

===END OF FILE===
